git init : makes a git repository.
git add filename : starts tracking the file and adds to the staging area.
git add . : adds all the files to the staging area.
git add -A / git add --a : adds all the files to the staging area.
git diff : compares the current working directory with the staging area
git diff --staged : compares the staging area with previous commit
git commit -a -m "some message" : skips the staging area and directly commits all the files
                                        but if there is an untracked file then it will not
                                        get commited.
git status : used to check the current status of the git.
git log : shows the previous commits.
git log - p -2 : shows the last 2 commits.
q : used for exiting.
git rm filename : used to delete a file.
git mv oldfilename newfilename : used to rename a file.
.gitignore : this is used to ignore some specific files or directories, we just add the files
             which we want to ignore in this .gitignore file, and then git ignores those files,
             for directories we use dir/.
git rm --cached filename : used to untrack a file.
rm -rf .git : used to delete the .git
git log --stat : shows the log in stat form and in short.
git log --pretty=oneline : shows all the commits, one commit per line.
git log --pretty=short : shows the commits in short form.
git log --pretty=full : shows some additional info.
git log --since=2.days : shows the logs for the last two days.
git log --since=5.months : shows the logs for the last 5 months.
    GO TO GIT LOG DOCS(https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log) FOR MORE COMMANDS.
git comit --amend : this command is used for ammending the previous commit, the vim editor will
                    open up and then we can do the changes.
git restore --staged filename : this is used to unstage the file.
git checkout -- filename : to make your file same as it was in the previous commit.
git checkout -f : to make your working directory same as your previous commit.
git remote add origin https://github.com/jayvardhan10/GITTUT.git : used to add the remote for
                                                                    pushing or pulling the
                                                                    code to the repository.
git remote -v : shows the links for pulling and pushing.
git push origin master : for pushing into the repository.

alias command:
git config --global alias.st status : used for telling git that now whenever I use git st
                                      then understand that I am talking about git status, this
                                      same alias command can be used with different commands.
git config --global alias.unstage 'restore --staged' : this tells git that now whenever,
                                                          I write git unstage, perform
                                                          git restore --staged filename.
git restore filename : used to discard changes in working directory (use cautiously).
git checkout -b newbranchname : this command creats a new branch with the name newbranchname.
                                This command also switches to the newbranchname branch.
git branch : shows the branches.
git branch branchname : crates a branch with the given branchname.
git checkout branchname : used for switching to the branchname branch.
git merge newbranchname : merges the newbranchname with the master branch.                               
git branch -d branchname : deletes the branch if it has been merged and gives an error if
                            this branch has not been merged.
git branch -D branchname : this deletes the branch even if it has not been merged.
git branch --merged : to check the branches which are already merged.
git branch --no-merged : to check the branches which are not yet merged.
